In this section,
we're going to review how to use Spring Integration's HTTP outbound channel
adapters and gateways to execute RESTful web service calls.
We're fortunate because HTTP outbound channel adapters and
outbound gateways are implemented by the same class.
The HTTP outbound channel adaptor is implemented by the HttpRequestExecuting
message handler with an expectReply value set to false,
and the HTTP outbound gateway is implemented by the HttpRequestExecuting
message handler with an expectReply value set to true.
As we've seen with other outbound components, this is a message handler.
So we'll be annotating our bean with a service activator that invokes
it when a message arrives on a specified channel.
Creating an outbound channel adapter is pretty straightforward.
We create a message handler bean annotated with a
ServiceActivator listening on a specified input channel.
We create an HttpRequestExecuting MessageHandler,
passing it the URL of a RESTful resource.
Then we define the HTTP method or verb that we want to invoke on that service.
And finally, we set the expectReply value to false.
When this handler receives a message, it will extract the message's payload,
serialize it to whatever value is defined in the
message's content type message header, and post it to the specified URL.
Creating an outbound gateway is a little more work primarily
because we're using a dynamic URL with a variable that we'll
need to populate from our message,
and we need to handle the response from the web service.
Again,
we create a message handler bean annotated with a service
activator that is listening on a specified channel.
We create a new HttpRequestExecuting message handler,
passing it the URL to the web service.
In this case, we include a URI variable named id by enclosing it in braces.
We specify the HTTP methods to use as the GET verb,
and then we set its expectReply value to true and specify
that the reply should be a reservation.
Next,
we create a Spring expression language parser and then map the id
variable in the URL to the raw value of the message payload.
When we later invoke the message handler,
we'll do so with the integer ID of the reservation to retrieve.
Finally,
we set the name of the output channel to which the message handler
should publish the response from the web service.
We need something to test with, so rather than integrating with a
message broker or some other message source,
I decided to build a stub message source.
We create a message source bean with an inbound channel adapter
that publishes a list of reservations to the fromStubChannel when
it's invoked by a 5‑second poller.
Inside the bean definition,
we implement the message source functional interface by creating a
lambda expression that accepts no input and returns a message with a
list of reservations as its payload.
We'll talk more about building custom message sources in the next module,
but this is a simple way to create a message source
that returns a static set of values.
Finally, because we're returning a list of reservations,
we define a splitter that receives the list of reservations from
the stub message source and publishes individual reservations to
the reservation fromStubChannel.
For our example,
we're going to use our stub message source to publish
reservations to the reservation listener.
The reservation listener will first post the reservation to the
reservation web service using an HttpRequestExecuting MessageHandler as
an outbound channel adaptor and then query for the reservation using
another HttpRequestExecuting MessageHandler,
but this time executing a GET request and handling the response.
The reservation web service is a simple Spring MVC RESTful web service using
Spring data to persist reservations to an embedded H2 database.
It's currently configured to listen for web requests on port
7080 so that it won't conflict with any other services that
you have running on port 8080.
I have the source code for this course on GitHub at
github.com/geekcap‑pluralsight/channeladapters.
You can clone the repository if you'd like to follow along. So let's
dive into the code and see this in action. We'll begin by building
our application, our stub message source,
which will publish reservations to the reservation
listener, our outbound channel adapter,
which will be used to post reservations to the reservation web service,
our outbound gateway,
which will be used to retrieve a reservation from the
reservation web service, and the reservation listener. Then we'll run the application and validate the results.